



[[]{.cart-text} ](#checkout){.btn .cart .open-checkout} [
[]{.btn-text-span .d-none .d-sm-inline-block .d-lg-none
.d-hg-inline-block}](#checkout){.btn .btn-secondary .checkout
.open-checkout}








[](/){.home} / [UML](/uml){.type} / [Modeling for System
Integration](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration){.type}


# Terminology of System Integration {#terminology-of-system-integration .title}




### Interfaces

Communication between IT systems occurs through *interfaces*. Therefore,
an interface is the basic element of system integration. Through an
interface, an IT system (the sender) sends information to another IT
system (the receiver). A particular IT system can be both a sender and a
receiver.

### Messages

IT systems that are connected via interfaces exchange *messages*. A
message is sent by the sender IT system, with the expectation that
receiving the message---immediately or later---initiates an activity in
the receiver IT system. For the receiver IT system, each message
received constitutes an event to which it responds.

For instance, if an invoice is sent in an electronic format, this event
is an *invoice receipt* for the receiver of the invoice. After the
receipt of the invoice, the receiver has a certain time frame to pay the
bill. The receiver IT system has to confirm the receipt of the invoice
and possibly activate another IT system, for example, an accounting
system that records the balance.

Messages can be loaded with additional information that is necessary to
process the activities of the receiver system. Generally, this
information is structured data with defined semantics, such as invoice
data or a passenger list. In UN/EDIFACT, for instance, this information
is called *reference data*.

Furthermore, messages have assigned control and routing information, for
example, sender address, receiver address, meta-information about the
content of the message, or checksums. We can also describe this
information as the 'packaging' of a message.

There are various alternatives to transform these three components:
event, information, and control and reference data, into a message that
can be exchanged between IT systems. Control information can, for
instance, be 'hidden' in interface programs, or can be sent as
additional data. An event can be a program call, or it can be
transferred in a file that contains further message data.

In UN/EDIFACT messages, which are also referred to as business
documents, all three components are contained in one single transfer
unit (mainly data): event (message type), information (reference data),
and control information (service segments).

Messages that are sent in XML format are also called documents in XML.
They contain at least reference data and meta-information. A great
advantage of XML compared to UN/EDIFACT is that each XML message carries
with it a reference to its structural description. This has the
advantage that everyone can read the XML message.

### Enterprise Application Integration

*Enterprise Application Integration* (EAI) incorporates methods,
concepts, and tools for the classification, connection, and coordination
of applications within organizations. The goal is integrated business
processing by a network of in-house applications of different
generations and architectures. This network constantly changes through
upgrades or the adding of new applications, through modified technology
and other influences.

One of the prerequisites for reaching this goal is the documentation of
business processes, of the application network, of the individual
applications, and their interfaces, which should be as unified in form
and display as possible.

UML is almost perfect for this task. (OMG has created a profile *UML
Profile for Enterprise Activation Integration* for this, which explains
the technical implementation (conversion etc.) on the basis of UML.)

### Electronic Data Interchange

The term *Electronic Data Interchange* (EDI) is a synonym for the
standardized exchange of business documents (order, delivery, invoice,
shipping information, etc.) between the IT systems of organizations and
institutions, such as suppliers or the customs authority. Business
documents are also referred to as messages.

The generic term EDI today includes older standards such as *Society for
Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication* (SWIFT), UN/EDIFACT,
and ANSI X12. With the development of the Internet, the new standard XML
was created. Inter-company data exchange, however, is only one aspect of
XML; the functionality of XML goes well beyond this. Because of this,
XML does not clearly fall under the generic term EDI.

### UN/EDIFACT

*United Nations Electronic Data Interchange for Administration,
Commerce, and Transport* (UN/EDIFACT) is an international standard for
electronic data exchange in administration, economics, and
transportation, which includes rules and message types. Within the
framework of *United Nations/Economic Commission for Europe* (UN/ECE),
the UNO aimed at supporting global commerce with electronic tools. In
several places throughout this chapter, we will refer to UN/EDIFACT.
There are several reasons for this:

-   UN/EDIFACT provides the option to depict complex hierarchical
    message structures. It also contains all three components of a
    message in one transfer unit: event, reference data, and control
    information. This makes UN/EDIFACT, conceptually, one of the most
    sophisticated standards in today's world.
-   The UN/EDIFACT standard is available on the Internet and can be used
    free of charge. (All specifications, regulations, and message types
    for the UN/EDIFACT standard can be downloaded from
    <http://www.unece.org/trade/untdid/welcome.htm>.)

### XML

The functionality of *eXtensible Markup Language* (XML) largely exceeds
the field of EDI. EDI is only one of many areas of application of XML
and is referred to as XML/EDI. XML can be used *within* as well as
*between* organizations.

The XML standard is standardized and published by *World Wide Web
Consortium* (the *[W3C](http://www.w3.org)*). XML includes many other
standards, such as *eXtensible Stylesheet Language* (XSL) for the
representation of data or Xlink for standardized links. (The XSL family
is a collection of recommendations on how XML documents should be
transformed and formatted, consisting of three parts: XSLT, Xpath, and
XSL-FO: see <http://www.w3c.org/style/XSL>. With the eXML Linking
Language contents from various documents can be linked to each other.
This will be an essential part of future system integration tools.) XML
evolved much quicker than UN/EDIFACT did, and the use of XML as format
for data exchange became accepted in a 'bottom-up' manner; the call for
standards came much later.







#### Read next

[Messages in UML []{.fa
.fa-arrow-right}](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/messages-in-uml){.btn
.btn-primary rel="next"}



#### Return

[[]{.fa .fa-arrow-left} Modeling for System
Integration](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration){.btn .btn-default
rel="prev"}








[![](/images/csd/computer-science-distilled.png?id=a7b07d54e199c5add8b9d48a08321803)](/computer-science-distilled)





[ Computer Science Distilled](/computer-science-distilled){.btn
.btn-landing-ref .btn-hg .btn-block .btn-secondary
style="font-size: 16px; position: relative"}


Do you remember anything at all from your computer science class?
Quicksort, Graph traversal, Big\'O and other stuff? Revise your memories
with our new [book on Computer Science](/computer-science-distilled).

Psst! Did I mention that we\'re offering **sexy discounts** right now?










[![SourceMaking](/images/content-public/logos/logo.png?id=55f0872eb5fd4505a39679db5f702b58){width="250"
height="312"
srcset="/images/content-public/logos/logo-2x.png?id=fee3b4b0a14ba60dc0fe368695d78be9 2x"}](/){.menu-brand}


-   [ Premium Stuff](/store)
    -   [ Dive Into Design Patterns](/design-patterns-ebook)
    -   [ Dive Into Refactoring](/refactoring-course)
    -   [ Computer Science Distilled](/computer-science-distilled)
-   [ Design Patterns](/design_patterns)
    -   [Creational patterns](/design_patterns/creational_patterns)
        -   [Abstract Factory Design
            Pattern](/design_patterns/abstract_factory)
        -   [Builder Design Pattern](/design_patterns/builder)
        -   [Factory Method Design
            Pattern](/design_patterns/factory_method)
        -   [Object Pool Design Pattern](/design_patterns/object_pool)
        -   [Prototype Design Pattern](/design_patterns/prototype)
        -   [Singleton Design Pattern](/design_patterns/singleton)
    -   [Structural patterns](/design_patterns/structural_patterns)
        -   [Adapter Design Pattern](/design_patterns/adapter)
        -   [Bridge Design Pattern](/design_patterns/bridge)
        -   [Composite Design Pattern](/design_patterns/composite)
        -   [Decorator Design Pattern](/design_patterns/decorator)
        -   [Facade Design Pattern](/design_patterns/facade)
        -   [Flyweight Design Pattern](/design_patterns/flyweight)
        -   [Private Class Data](/design_patterns/private_class_data)
        -   [Proxy Design Pattern](/design_patterns/proxy)
    -   [Behavioral patterns](/design_patterns/behavioral_patterns)
        -   [Chain of
            Responsibility](/design_patterns/chain_of_responsibility)
        -   [Command Design Pattern](/design_patterns/command)
        -   [Interpreter Design Pattern](/design_patterns/interpreter)
        -   [Iterator Design Pattern](/design_patterns/iterator)
        -   [Mediator Design Pattern](/design_patterns/mediator)
        -   [Memento Design Pattern](/design_patterns/memento)
        -   [Null Object Design Pattern](/design_patterns/null_object)
        -   [Observer Design Pattern](/design_patterns/observer)
        -   [State Design Pattern](/design_patterns/state)
        -   [Strategy Design Pattern](/design_patterns/strategy)
        -   [Template Method Design
            Pattern](/design_patterns/template_method)
        -   [Visitor Design Pattern](/design_patterns/visitor)
-   [ AntiPatterns](/antipatterns)
    -   [Software Development
        AntiPatterns](/antipatterns/software-development-antipatterns)
        -   [The Blob](/antipatterns/the-blob)
        -   [Continuous
            Obsolescence](/antipatterns/continuous-obsolescence)
        -   [Lava Flow](/antipatterns/lava-flow)
        -   [Ambiguous Viewpoint](/antipatterns/ambiguous-viewpoint)
        -   [Functional
            Decomposition](/antipatterns/functional-decomposition)
        -   [Poltergeists](/antipatterns/poltergeists)
        -   [Boat Anchor](/antipatterns/boat-anchor)
        -   [Golden Hammer](/antipatterns/golden-hammer)
        -   [Dead End](/antipatterns/dead-end)
        -   [Spaghetti Code](/antipatterns/spaghetti-code)
        -   [Input Kludge](/antipatterns/input-kludge)
        -   [Walking through a
            Minefield](/antipatterns/walking-through-minefield)
        -   [Cut-And-Paste
            Programming](/antipatterns/cut-and-paste-programming)
        -   [Mushroom Management](/antipatterns/mushroom-management)
    -   [Software Architecture
        AntiPatterns](/antipatterns/software-architecture-antipatterns)
        -   [Autogenerated
            Stovepipe](/antipatterns/autogenerated-stovepipe)
        -   [Stovepipe Enterprise](/antipatterns/stovepipe-enterprise)
        -   [Jumble](/antipatterns/jumble)
        -   [Stovepipe System](/antipatterns/stovepipe-system)
        -   [Cover Your Assets](/antipatterns/cover-your-assets)
        -   [Vendor Lock-In](/antipatterns/vendor-lock-in)
        -   [Wolf Ticket](/antipatterns/wolf-ticket)
        -   [Architecture By
            Implication](/antipatterns/architecture-by-implication)
        -   [Warm Bodies](/antipatterns/warm-bodies)
        -   [Design By Committee](/antipatterns/design-by-committee)
        -   [Swiss Army Knife](/antipatterns/swiss-army-knife)
        -   [Reinvent The Wheel](/antipatterns/reinvent-the-wheel)
        -   [The Grand Old Duke of
            York](/antipatterns/the-grand-old-duke-of-york)
    -   [Project Management
        AntiPatterns](/antipatterns/software-project-management-antipatterns)
        -   [Blowhard Jamboree](/antipatterns/blowhard-jamboree)
        -   [Analysis Paralysis](/antipatterns/analysis-paralysis)
        -   [Viewgraph Engineering](/antipatterns/viewgraph-engineering)
        -   [Death By Planning](/antipatterns/death-by-planning)
        -   [Fear of Success](/antipatterns/fear-of-success)
        -   [Corncob](/antipatterns/corncob)
        -   [Intellectual Violence](/antipatterns/intellectual-violence)
        -   [Irrational Management](/antipatterns/irrational-management)
        -   [Smoke and Mirrors](/antipatterns/smoke-and-mirrors)
        -   [Project Mismanagement](/antipatterns/project-mismanagement)
        -   [Throw It over the
            Wall](/antipatterns/throw-it-over-the-wall)
        -   [Fire Drill](/antipatterns/fire-drill)
        -   [The Feud](/antipatterns/the-feud)
        -   [E-mail Is Dangerous](/antipatterns/e-mail-is-dangerous)
-   [ Refactoring](/refactoring)
    -   [Code Smells](/refactoring/smells)
        -   [Bloaters](/refactoring/smells/bloaters)
            -   [Long Method](/refactoring/smells/long-method)
            -   [Large Class](/refactoring/smells/large-class)
            -   [Primitive
                Obsession](/refactoring/smells/primitive-obsession)
            -   [Long Parameter
                List](/refactoring/smells/long-parameter-list)
            -   [Data Clumps](/refactoring/smells/data-clumps)
        -   [Object-Orientation Abusers](/refactoring/smells/oo-abusers)
            -   [Switch
                Statements](/refactoring/smells/switch-statements)
            -   [Temporary Field](/refactoring/smells/temporary-field)
            -   [Refused Bequest](/refactoring/smells/refused-bequest)
            -   [Alternative Classes with Different
                Interfaces](/refactoring/smells/alternative-classes-with-different-interfaces)
        -   [Change Preventers](/refactoring/smells/change-preventers)
            -   [Divergent Change](/refactoring/smells/divergent-change)
            -   [Shotgun Surgery](/refactoring/smells/shotgun-surgery)
            -   [Parallel Inheritance
                Hierarchies](/refactoring/smells/parallel-inheritance-hierarchies)
        -   [Dispensables](/refactoring/smells/dispensables)
            -   [Comments](/refactoring/smells/comments)
            -   [Duplicate Code](/refactoring/smells/duplicate-code)
            -   [Lazy Class](/refactoring/smells/lazy-class)
            -   [Data Class](/refactoring/smells/data-class)
            -   [Dead Code](/refactoring/smells/dead-code)
            -   [Speculative
                Generality](/refactoring/smells/speculative-generality)
        -   [Couplers](/refactoring/smells/couplers)
            -   [Feature Envy](/refactoring/smells/feature-envy)
            -   [Inappropriate
                Intimacy](/refactoring/smells/inappropriate-intimacy)
            -   [Message Chains](/refactoring/smells/message-chains)
            -   [Middle Man](/refactoring/smells/middle-man)
        -   [Other Smells](/refactoring/smells/other)
            -   [Incomplete Library
                Class](/refactoring/smells/incomplete-library-class)
    -   [Refactoring techniques](/refactoring/refactorings)
        -   [Composing Methods](/refactoring/composing-methods)
            -   [Extract Method](/refactoring/extract-method)
            -   [Inline Method](/refactoring/inline-method)
            -   [Extract Variable](/refactoring/extract-variable)
            -   [Inline Temp](/refactoring/inline-temp)
            -   [Replace Temp with
                Query](/refactoring/replace-temp-with-query)
            -   [Split Temporary
                Variable](/refactoring/split-temporary-variable)
            -   [Remove Assignments to
                Parameters](/refactoring/remove-assignments-to-parameters)
            -   [Replace Method with Method
                Object](/refactoring/replace-method-with-method-object)
            -   [Substitute
                Algorithm](/refactoring/substitute-algorithm)
        -   [Moving Features between
            Objects](/refactoring/moving-features-between-objects)
            -   [Move Method](/refactoring/move-method)
            -   [Move Field](/refactoring/move-field)
            -   [Extract Class](/refactoring/extract-class)
            -   [Inline Class](/refactoring/inline-class)
            -   [Hide Delegate](/refactoring/hide-delegate)
            -   [Remove Middle Man](/refactoring/remove-middle-man)
            -   [Introduce Foreign
                Method](/refactoring/introduce-foreign-method)
            -   [Introduce Local
                Extension](/refactoring/introduce-local-extension)
        -   [Organizing Data](/refactoring/organizing-data)
            -   [Self Encapsulate
                Field](/refactoring/self-encapsulate-field)
            -   [Replace Data Value with
                Object](/refactoring/replace-data-value-with-object)
            -   [Change Value to
                Reference](/refactoring/change-value-to-reference)
            -   [Change Reference to
                Value](/refactoring/change-reference-to-value)
            -   [Replace Array with
                Object](/refactoring/replace-array-with-object)
            -   [Duplicate Observed
                Data](/refactoring/duplicate-observed-data)
            -   [Change Unidirectional Association to
                Bidirectional](/refactoring/change-unidirectional-association-to-bidirectional)
            -   [Change Bidirectional Association to
                Unidirectional](/refactoring/change-bidirectional-association-to-unidirectional)
            -   [Replace Magic Number with Symbolic
                Constant](/refactoring/replace-magic-number-with-symbolic-constant)
            -   [Encapsulate Field](/refactoring/encapsulate-field)
            -   [Encapsulate
                Collection](/refactoring/encapsulate-collection)
            -   [Replace Type Code with
                Class](/refactoring/replace-type-code-with-class)
            -   [Replace Type Code with
                Subclasses](/refactoring/replace-type-code-with-subclasses)
            -   [Replace Type Code with
                State/Strategy](/refactoring/replace-type-code-with-state-strategy)
            -   [Replace Subclass with
                Fields](/refactoring/replace-subclass-with-fields)
        -   [Simplifying Conditional
            Expressions](/refactoring/simplifying-conditional-expressions)
            -   [Decompose
                Conditional](/refactoring/decompose-conditional)
            -   [Consolidate Conditional
                Expression](/refactoring/consolidate-conditional-expression)
            -   [Consolidate Duplicate Conditional
                Fragments](/refactoring/consolidate-duplicate-conditional-fragments)
            -   [Remove Control Flag](/refactoring/remove-control-flag)
            -   [Replace Nested Conditional with Guard
                Clauses](/refactoring/replace-nested-conditional-with-guard-clauses)
            -   [Replace Conditional with
                Polymorphism](/refactoring/replace-conditional-with-polymorphism)
            -   [Introduce Null
                Object](/refactoring/introduce-null-object)
            -   [Introduce Assertion](/refactoring/introduce-assertion)
        -   [Simplifying Method
            Calls](/refactoring/simplifying-method-calls)
            -   [Rename Method](/refactoring/rename-method)
            -   [Add Parameter](/refactoring/add-parameter)
            -   [Remove Parameter](/refactoring/remove-parameter)
            -   [Separate Query from
                Modifier](/refactoring/separate-query-from-modifier)
            -   [Parameterize Method](/refactoring/parameterize-method)
            -   [Replace Parameter with Explicit
                Methods](/refactoring/replace-parameter-with-explicit-methods)
            -   [Preserve Whole
                Object](/refactoring/preserve-whole-object)
            -   [Replace Parameter with Method
                Call](/refactoring/replace-parameter-with-method-call)
            -   [Introduce Parameter
                Object](/refactoring/introduce-parameter-object)
            -   [Remove Setting
                Method](/refactoring/remove-setting-method)
            -   [Hide Method](/refactoring/hide-method)
            -   [Replace Constructor with Factory
                Method](/refactoring/replace-constructor-with-factory-method)
            -   [Replace Error Code with
                Exception](/refactoring/replace-error-code-with-exception)
            -   [Replace Exception with
                Test](/refactoring/replace-exception-with-test)
        -   [Dealing with
            Generalisation](/refactoring/dealing-with-generalisation)
            -   [Pull Up Field](/refactoring/pull-up-field)
            -   [Pull Up Method](/refactoring/pull-up-method)
            -   [Pull Up Constructor
                Body](/refactoring/pull-up-constructor-body)
            -   [Push Down Method](/refactoring/push-down-method)
            -   [Push Down Field](/refactoring/push-down-field)
            -   [Extract Subclass](/refactoring/extract-subclass)
            -   [Extract Superclass](/refactoring/extract-superclass)
            -   [Extract Interface](/refactoring/extract-interface)
            -   [Collapse Hierarchy](/refactoring/collapse-hierarchy)
            -   [Form Template
                Method](/refactoring/form-template-method)
            -   [Replace Inheritance with
                Delegation](/refactoring/replace-inheritance-with-delegation)
            -   [Replace Delegation with
                Inheritance](/refactoring/replace-delegation-with-inheritance)
-   [ UML](/uml)
    -   [Introduction](/uml/introduction)
    -   [Basic Principles and Background](/uml/basic-principles)
        -   [Introduction to the Case
            Study](/uml/basic-principles-and-background/introduction-to-the-case-study)
        -   [Models, Views, and
            Diagrams](/uml/basic-principles-and-background/models-views-and-diagrams)
        -   [Information Systems and IT
            Systems](/uml/basic-principles-and-background/information-systems-and-it-systems)
        -   [The Models of our Case
            Study](/uml/basic-principles-and-background/the-models-of-our-case-study)
        -   [History of UML: Methods and
            Notations](/uml/basic-principles-and-background/history-of-uml-methods-and-notations)
        -   [Requirement
            Specification](/uml/basic-principles-and-background/requirement-specification)
        -   [UML 2.0](/uml/basic-principles-and-background/uml2)
    -   [Modeling Business Systems](/uml/modeling-business-systems)
        -   [Business Processes and Business
            Systems](/uml/modeling-business-systems/business-processes-and-business-systems)
        -   [One Model---Two
            Views](/uml/modeling-business-systems/one-model-two-views)
        -   [External
            View](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view)
        -   [The Elements of a
            View](/uml/modeling-business-systems/the-elements-of-view)
        -   [Use Case
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/use-case-diagrams)
        -   [Constructing Use Case
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/constructing-use-case-diagrams)
        -   [Activity
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/activity-diagrams)
        -   [Constructing Activity
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/constructing-activity-diagrams)
        -   [Sequence
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/sequence-diagrams)
        -   [Constructing Sequence
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/constructing-sequence-diagrams)
        -   [High-Level Sequence
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/high-level-sequence-diagrams)
        -   [Sequence Diagrams for Scenarios of Business Use
            Cases](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/sequence-diagrams-for-scenarios-of-business-use-cases)
        -   [Internal
            View](/uml/modeling-business-systems/the-internal-view)
        -   [Package
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-business-systems/internal-view/package-diagram)
        -   [Constructing Package
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/internal-view/constructing-package-diagrams)
        -   [Class
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-business-systems/internal-view/class-diagram)
        -   [Constructing Class
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/internal-view/constructing-class-diagrams)
        -   [Activity
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-business-systems/internal-view/activity-diagram)
    -   [Modeling IT Systems](/uml/modeling-it-systems)
        -   [External View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/external-view)
        -   [The User View or \"I don\'t care how it works, as long as
            it
            works.\"](/uml/modeling-it-systems/external-view/the-user-view-or-i-dont-care-how-it-works-as-long-as-it-works)
        -   [The Elements of a
            View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/external-view/the-elements-of-view)
        -   [Use Case
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-it-systems/external-view/the-elements-of-view/use-case-diagram)
        -   [Query Events and Mutation
            Events](/uml/modeling-it-systems/external-view/query-events-and-mutation-events)
        -   [Use Case Sequence
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-it-systems/external-view/use-case-sequence-diagram)
        -   [Constructing the External
            View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/external-view/constructing-the-external-view)
        -   [Structural View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/structural-view)
        -   [Objects and
            Classes](/uml/modeling-it-systems/structural-view/objects-and-classes)
        -   [Generalization, Specialization, and
            Inheritance](/uml/modeling-it-systems/structural-view/generalization-specialization-and-inheritance)
        -   [Static and Dynamic Business
            Rules](/uml/modeling-it-systems/structural-view/static-and-dynamic-business-rules)
        -   [Elements of the
            View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/structural-view/elements-of-the-view)
        -   [Class
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-it-systems/structural-view/class-diagram)
        -   [Constructing Class
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-it-systems/structural-view/constructing-class-diagrams)
        -   [The Behavioral
            View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/the-behavioral-view)
        -   [The Life of an
            Object](/uml/modeling-it-systems/the-behavioral-view/the-life-of-an-object)
        -   [The Elements of the
            View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/the-behavioral-view/the-elements-of-the-view)
        -   [Statechart
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-it-systems/the-behavioral-view/statechart-diagram)
        -   [Constructing Statechart
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-it-systems/the-behavioral-view/constructing-statechart-diagrams)
        -   [Interaction
            View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/interaction-view)
        -   [Seeing What Happens Inside the IT
            System](/uml/modeling-it-systems/interaction-view/seeing-what-happens-inside-the-it-system)
        -   [Elements of the
            View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/interaction-view/elements-of-the-view)
        -   [Communication
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-it-systems/interaction-view/communication-diagram)
        -   [Sequence
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-it-systems/interaction-view/sequence-diagram)
        -   [Constructing Communication
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-it-systems/interaction-view/constructing-communication-diagrams)
        -   [Constructing Sequence
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-it-systems/interaction-view/constructing-sequence-diagrams)
    -   [Modeling for System
        Integration](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration)
        -   [Terminology of System
            Integration](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/terminology-of-system-integration)
        -   [Messages in
            UML](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/messages-in-uml)
        -   [One Model---Two
            Views](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/one-model-two-views)
        -   [Process
            View](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/process-view)
        -   [The Business System Model as
            Foundation](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/process-view/the-business-system-model-as-foundation)
        -   [Elements of the
            View](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/process-view/elements-of-the-view)
        -   [Activity
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/process-view/activity-diagrams)
        -   [Sequence
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/process-view/sequence-diagram)
        -   [Constructing Diagrams in the Process
            View](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/process-view/constructing-diagrams-in-the-process-view)
        -   [The Static
            View](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/the-static-view)
        -   [Elements of the
            View](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/the-static-view/elements-of-the-view)
        -   [Class
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/the-static-view/class-diagram)
        -   [Constructing Class
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/the-static-view/constructing-class-diagrams)
        -   [Transforming Data from the IT System to the Message
            \"passenger
            list\"](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/the-static-view/transforming-data-from-the-it-system-to-the-mess)
        -   [Transformation of UML Messages into Various Standard
            Formats](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/the-static-view/transformation-of-uml-messages-into-various-stan)



[ Log in](https://sourcemaking.com/login "Log in") [ Contact
us](https://feedback.sourcemaking.com/ "Contact us"){.userecho-public
rel="nofollow"}





[![SourceMaking](/images/content-public/logos/logo-min-xs.png?id=f4a48661fc32a3f349b76a075f28594c){srcset="/images/content-public/logos/logo-min-xs-2x.png?id=34fc05750336c33b7815e231a0f227df 2x"}](/){.navigation-brand}


[![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
Shop Now!](/store){.btn .btn-md .btn-primary .btn-featured}


-   [ [Contact us]{.caption .d-none
    .d-xl-inline-block}](https://feedback.sourcemaking.com/?show_feedback_form_private=true "Contact us"){.userecho-private
    rel="nofollow"}
-   [ [Log in]{.caption .d-none
    .d-xl-inline-block}](https://sourcemaking.com/login "Log in")
-   






-   [Design Patterns](/design_patterns)
-   [AntiPatterns](/antipatterns)
-   [Refactoring](/refactoring)
-   [UML](/uml)



-   [My account](/home)
-   [Forum](https://sourcemaking.userecho.com/){.userecho-public
    rel="nofollow"}
-   [Contact
    us](https://sourcemaking.userecho.com/?show_feedback_form_private=true){.userecho-private
    rel="nofollow"}
-   [About us](/about-us)










© 2007-2023 [SourceMaking.com](/)[ / ]{.d-none .d-md-inline}\
All rights reserved.



[Terms](/terms) / [Privacy policy](/privacy-policy)











[[]{.cart-text} ](#checkout){.btn .cart .open-checkout} [
[]{.btn-text-span .d-none .d-sm-inline-block .d-lg-none
.d-hg-inline-block}](#checkout){.btn .btn-secondary .checkout
.open-checkout}








[](/){.home} / [UML](/uml){.type} / [Modeling for System
Integration](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration){.type}


# Terminology of System Integration {#terminology-of-system-integration-1 .title}




### Interfaces

Communication between IT systems occurs through *interfaces*. Therefore,
an interface is the basic element of system integration. Through an
interface, an IT system (the sender) sends information to another IT
system (the receiver). A particular IT system can be both a sender and a
receiver.

### Messages

IT systems that are connected via interfaces exchange *messages*. A
message is sent by the sender IT system, with the expectation that
receiving the message---immediately or later---initiates an activity in
the receiver IT system. For the receiver IT system, each message
received constitutes an event to which it responds.

For instance, if an invoice is sent in an electronic format, this event
is an *invoice receipt* for the receiver of the invoice. After the
receipt of the invoice, the receiver has a certain time frame to pay the
bill. The receiver IT system has to confirm the receipt of the invoice
and possibly activate another IT system, for example, an accounting
system that records the balance.

Messages can be loaded with additional information that is necessary to
process the activities of the receiver system. Generally, this
information is structured data with defined semantics, such as invoice
data or a passenger list. In UN/EDIFACT, for instance, this information
is called *reference data*.

Furthermore, messages have assigned control and routing information, for
example, sender address, receiver address, meta-information about the
content of the message, or checksums. We can also describe this
information as the 'packaging' of a message.

There are various alternatives to transform these three components:
event, information, and control and reference data, into a message that
can be exchanged between IT systems. Control information can, for
instance, be 'hidden' in interface programs, or can be sent as
additional data. An event can be a program call, or it can be
transferred in a file that contains further message data.

In UN/EDIFACT messages, which are also referred to as business
documents, all three components are contained in one single transfer
unit (mainly data): event (message type), information (reference data),
and control information (service segments).

Messages that are sent in XML format are also called documents in XML.
They contain at least reference data and meta-information. A great
advantage of XML compared to UN/EDIFACT is that each XML message carries
with it a reference to its structural description. This has the
advantage that everyone can read the XML message.

### Enterprise Application Integration

*Enterprise Application Integration* (EAI) incorporates methods,
concepts, and tools for the classification, connection, and coordination
of applications within organizations. The goal is integrated business
processing by a network of in-house applications of different
generations and architectures. This network constantly changes through
upgrades or the adding of new applications, through modified technology
and other influences.

One of the prerequisites for reaching this goal is the documentation of
business processes, of the application network, of the individual
applications, and their interfaces, which should be as unified in form
and display as possible.

UML is almost perfect for this task. (OMG has created a profile *UML
Profile for Enterprise Activation Integration* for this, which explains
the technical implementation (conversion etc.) on the basis of UML.)

### Electronic Data Interchange

The term *Electronic Data Interchange* (EDI) is a synonym for the
standardized exchange of business documents (order, delivery, invoice,
shipping information, etc.) between the IT systems of organizations and
institutions, such as suppliers or the customs authority. Business
documents are also referred to as messages.

The generic term EDI today includes older standards such as *Society for
Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication* (SWIFT), UN/EDIFACT,
and ANSI X12. With the development of the Internet, the new standard XML
was created. Inter-company data exchange, however, is only one aspect of
XML; the functionality of XML goes well beyond this. Because of this,
XML does not clearly fall under the generic term EDI.

### UN/EDIFACT

*United Nations Electronic Data Interchange for Administration,
Commerce, and Transport* (UN/EDIFACT) is an international standard for
electronic data exchange in administration, economics, and
transportation, which includes rules and message types. Within the
framework of *United Nations/Economic Commission for Europe* (UN/ECE),
the UNO aimed at supporting global commerce with electronic tools. In
several places throughout this chapter, we will refer to UN/EDIFACT.
There are several reasons for this:

-   UN/EDIFACT provides the option to depict complex hierarchical
    message structures. It also contains all three components of a
    message in one transfer unit: event, reference data, and control
    information. This makes UN/EDIFACT, conceptually, one of the most
    sophisticated standards in today's world.
-   The UN/EDIFACT standard is available on the Internet and can be used
    free of charge. (All specifications, regulations, and message types
    for the UN/EDIFACT standard can be downloaded from
    <http://www.unece.org/trade/untdid/welcome.htm>.)

### XML

The functionality of *eXtensible Markup Language* (XML) largely exceeds
the field of EDI. EDI is only one of many areas of application of XML
and is referred to as XML/EDI. XML can be used *within* as well as
*between* organizations.

The XML standard is standardized and published by *World Wide Web
Consortium* (the *[W3C](http://www.w3.org)*). XML includes many other
standards, such as *eXtensible Stylesheet Language* (XSL) for the
representation of data or Xlink for standardized links. (The XSL family
is a collection of recommendations on how XML documents should be
transformed and formatted, consisting of three parts: XSLT, Xpath, and
XSL-FO: see <http://www.w3c.org/style/XSL>. With the eXML Linking
Language contents from various documents can be linked to each other.
This will be an essential part of future system integration tools.) XML
evolved much quicker than UN/EDIFACT did, and the use of XML as format
for data exchange became accepted in a 'bottom-up' manner; the call for
standards came much later.







#### Read next

[Messages in UML []{.fa
.fa-arrow-right}](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/messages-in-uml){.btn
.btn-primary rel="next"}



#### Return

[[]{.fa .fa-arrow-left} Modeling for System
Integration](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration){.btn .btn-default
rel="prev"}








[![](/images/csd/computer-science-distilled.png?id=a7b07d54e199c5add8b9d48a08321803)](/computer-science-distilled)





[ Computer Science Distilled](/computer-science-distilled){.btn
.btn-landing-ref .btn-hg .btn-block .btn-secondary
style="font-size: 16px; position: relative"}


Do you remember anything at all from your computer science class?
Quicksort, Graph traversal, Big\'O and other stuff? Revise your memories
with our new [book on Computer Science](/computer-science-distilled).

Psst! Did I mention that we\'re offering **sexy discounts** right now?










[![SourceMaking](/images/content-public/logos/logo.png?id=55f0872eb5fd4505a39679db5f702b58){width="250"
height="312"
srcset="/images/content-public/logos/logo-2x.png?id=fee3b4b0a14ba60dc0fe368695d78be9 2x"}](/){.menu-brand}


-   [ Premium Stuff](/store)
    -   [ Dive Into Design Patterns](/design-patterns-ebook)
    -   [ Dive Into Refactoring](/refactoring-course)
    -   [ Computer Science Distilled](/computer-science-distilled)
-   [ Design Patterns](/design_patterns)
    -   [Creational patterns](/design_patterns/creational_patterns)
        -   [Abstract Factory Design
            Pattern](/design_patterns/abstract_factory)
        -   [Builder Design Pattern](/design_patterns/builder)
        -   [Factory Method Design
            Pattern](/design_patterns/factory_method)
        -   [Object Pool Design Pattern](/design_patterns/object_pool)
        -   [Prototype Design Pattern](/design_patterns/prototype)
        -   [Singleton Design Pattern](/design_patterns/singleton)
    -   [Structural patterns](/design_patterns/structural_patterns)
        -   [Adapter Design Pattern](/design_patterns/adapter)
        -   [Bridge Design Pattern](/design_patterns/bridge)
        -   [Composite Design Pattern](/design_patterns/composite)
        -   [Decorator Design Pattern](/design_patterns/decorator)
        -   [Facade Design Pattern](/design_patterns/facade)
        -   [Flyweight Design Pattern](/design_patterns/flyweight)
        -   [Private Class Data](/design_patterns/private_class_data)
        -   [Proxy Design Pattern](/design_patterns/proxy)
    -   [Behavioral patterns](/design_patterns/behavioral_patterns)
        -   [Chain of
            Responsibility](/design_patterns/chain_of_responsibility)
        -   [Command Design Pattern](/design_patterns/command)
        -   [Interpreter Design Pattern](/design_patterns/interpreter)
        -   [Iterator Design Pattern](/design_patterns/iterator)
        -   [Mediator Design Pattern](/design_patterns/mediator)
        -   [Memento Design Pattern](/design_patterns/memento)
        -   [Null Object Design Pattern](/design_patterns/null_object)
        -   [Observer Design Pattern](/design_patterns/observer)
        -   [State Design Pattern](/design_patterns/state)
        -   [Strategy Design Pattern](/design_patterns/strategy)
        -   [Template Method Design
            Pattern](/design_patterns/template_method)
        -   [Visitor Design Pattern](/design_patterns/visitor)
-   [ AntiPatterns](/antipatterns)
    -   [Software Development
        AntiPatterns](/antipatterns/software-development-antipatterns)
        -   [The Blob](/antipatterns/the-blob)
        -   [Continuous
            Obsolescence](/antipatterns/continuous-obsolescence)
        -   [Lava Flow](/antipatterns/lava-flow)
        -   [Ambiguous Viewpoint](/antipatterns/ambiguous-viewpoint)
        -   [Functional
            Decomposition](/antipatterns/functional-decomposition)
        -   [Poltergeists](/antipatterns/poltergeists)
        -   [Boat Anchor](/antipatterns/boat-anchor)
        -   [Golden Hammer](/antipatterns/golden-hammer)
        -   [Dead End](/antipatterns/dead-end)
        -   [Spaghetti Code](/antipatterns/spaghetti-code)
        -   [Input Kludge](/antipatterns/input-kludge)
        -   [Walking through a
            Minefield](/antipatterns/walking-through-minefield)
        -   [Cut-And-Paste
            Programming](/antipatterns/cut-and-paste-programming)
        -   [Mushroom Management](/antipatterns/mushroom-management)
    -   [Software Architecture
        AntiPatterns](/antipatterns/software-architecture-antipatterns)
        -   [Autogenerated
            Stovepipe](/antipatterns/autogenerated-stovepipe)
        -   [Stovepipe Enterprise](/antipatterns/stovepipe-enterprise)
        -   [Jumble](/antipatterns/jumble)
        -   [Stovepipe System](/antipatterns/stovepipe-system)
        -   [Cover Your Assets](/antipatterns/cover-your-assets)
        -   [Vendor Lock-In](/antipatterns/vendor-lock-in)
        -   [Wolf Ticket](/antipatterns/wolf-ticket)
        -   [Architecture By
            Implication](/antipatterns/architecture-by-implication)
        -   [Warm Bodies](/antipatterns/warm-bodies)
        -   [Design By Committee](/antipatterns/design-by-committee)
        -   [Swiss Army Knife](/antipatterns/swiss-army-knife)
        -   [Reinvent The Wheel](/antipatterns/reinvent-the-wheel)
        -   [The Grand Old Duke of
            York](/antipatterns/the-grand-old-duke-of-york)
    -   [Project Management
        AntiPatterns](/antipatterns/software-project-management-antipatterns)
        -   [Blowhard Jamboree](/antipatterns/blowhard-jamboree)
        -   [Analysis Paralysis](/antipatterns/analysis-paralysis)
        -   [Viewgraph Engineering](/antipatterns/viewgraph-engineering)
        -   [Death By Planning](/antipatterns/death-by-planning)
        -   [Fear of Success](/antipatterns/fear-of-success)
        -   [Corncob](/antipatterns/corncob)
        -   [Intellectual Violence](/antipatterns/intellectual-violence)
        -   [Irrational Management](/antipatterns/irrational-management)
        -   [Smoke and Mirrors](/antipatterns/smoke-and-mirrors)
        -   [Project Mismanagement](/antipatterns/project-mismanagement)
        -   [Throw It over the
            Wall](/antipatterns/throw-it-over-the-wall)
        -   [Fire Drill](/antipatterns/fire-drill)
        -   [The Feud](/antipatterns/the-feud)
        -   [E-mail Is Dangerous](/antipatterns/e-mail-is-dangerous)
-   [ Refactoring](/refactoring)
    -   [Code Smells](/refactoring/smells)
        -   [Bloaters](/refactoring/smells/bloaters)
            -   [Long Method](/refactoring/smells/long-method)
            -   [Large Class](/refactoring/smells/large-class)
            -   [Primitive
                Obsession](/refactoring/smells/primitive-obsession)
            -   [Long Parameter
                List](/refactoring/smells/long-parameter-list)
            -   [Data Clumps](/refactoring/smells/data-clumps)
        -   [Object-Orientation Abusers](/refactoring/smells/oo-abusers)
            -   [Switch
                Statements](/refactoring/smells/switch-statements)
            -   [Temporary Field](/refactoring/smells/temporary-field)
            -   [Refused Bequest](/refactoring/smells/refused-bequest)
            -   [Alternative Classes with Different
                Interfaces](/refactoring/smells/alternative-classes-with-different-interfaces)
        -   [Change Preventers](/refactoring/smells/change-preventers)
            -   [Divergent Change](/refactoring/smells/divergent-change)
            -   [Shotgun Surgery](/refactoring/smells/shotgun-surgery)
            -   [Parallel Inheritance
                Hierarchies](/refactoring/smells/parallel-inheritance-hierarchies)
        -   [Dispensables](/refactoring/smells/dispensables)
            -   [Comments](/refactoring/smells/comments)
            -   [Duplicate Code](/refactoring/smells/duplicate-code)
            -   [Lazy Class](/refactoring/smells/lazy-class)
            -   [Data Class](/refactoring/smells/data-class)
            -   [Dead Code](/refactoring/smells/dead-code)
            -   [Speculative
                Generality](/refactoring/smells/speculative-generality)
        -   [Couplers](/refactoring/smells/couplers)
            -   [Feature Envy](/refactoring/smells/feature-envy)
            -   [Inappropriate
                Intimacy](/refactoring/smells/inappropriate-intimacy)
            -   [Message Chains](/refactoring/smells/message-chains)
            -   [Middle Man](/refactoring/smells/middle-man)
        -   [Other Smells](/refactoring/smells/other)
            -   [Incomplete Library
                Class](/refactoring/smells/incomplete-library-class)
    -   [Refactoring techniques](/refactoring/refactorings)
        -   [Composing Methods](/refactoring/composing-methods)
            -   [Extract Method](/refactoring/extract-method)
            -   [Inline Method](/refactoring/inline-method)
            -   [Extract Variable](/refactoring/extract-variable)
            -   [Inline Temp](/refactoring/inline-temp)
            -   [Replace Temp with
                Query](/refactoring/replace-temp-with-query)
            -   [Split Temporary
                Variable](/refactoring/split-temporary-variable)
            -   [Remove Assignments to
                Parameters](/refactoring/remove-assignments-to-parameters)
            -   [Replace Method with Method
                Object](/refactoring/replace-method-with-method-object)
            -   [Substitute
                Algorithm](/refactoring/substitute-algorithm)
        -   [Moving Features between
            Objects](/refactoring/moving-features-between-objects)
            -   [Move Method](/refactoring/move-method)
            -   [Move Field](/refactoring/move-field)
            -   [Extract Class](/refactoring/extract-class)
            -   [Inline Class](/refactoring/inline-class)
            -   [Hide Delegate](/refactoring/hide-delegate)
            -   [Remove Middle Man](/refactoring/remove-middle-man)
            -   [Introduce Foreign
                Method](/refactoring/introduce-foreign-method)
            -   [Introduce Local
                Extension](/refactoring/introduce-local-extension)
        -   [Organizing Data](/refactoring/organizing-data)
            -   [Self Encapsulate
                Field](/refactoring/self-encapsulate-field)
            -   [Replace Data Value with
                Object](/refactoring/replace-data-value-with-object)
            -   [Change Value to
                Reference](/refactoring/change-value-to-reference)
            -   [Change Reference to
                Value](/refactoring/change-reference-to-value)
            -   [Replace Array with
                Object](/refactoring/replace-array-with-object)
            -   [Duplicate Observed
                Data](/refactoring/duplicate-observed-data)
            -   [Change Unidirectional Association to
                Bidirectional](/refactoring/change-unidirectional-association-to-bidirectional)
            -   [Change Bidirectional Association to
                Unidirectional](/refactoring/change-bidirectional-association-to-unidirectional)
            -   [Replace Magic Number with Symbolic
                Constant](/refactoring/replace-magic-number-with-symbolic-constant)
            -   [Encapsulate Field](/refactoring/encapsulate-field)
            -   [Encapsulate
                Collection](/refactoring/encapsulate-collection)
            -   [Replace Type Code with
                Class](/refactoring/replace-type-code-with-class)
            -   [Replace Type Code with
                Subclasses](/refactoring/replace-type-code-with-subclasses)
            -   [Replace Type Code with
                State/Strategy](/refactoring/replace-type-code-with-state-strategy)
            -   [Replace Subclass with
                Fields](/refactoring/replace-subclass-with-fields)
        -   [Simplifying Conditional
            Expressions](/refactoring/simplifying-conditional-expressions)
            -   [Decompose
                Conditional](/refactoring/decompose-conditional)
            -   [Consolidate Conditional
                Expression](/refactoring/consolidate-conditional-expression)
            -   [Consolidate Duplicate Conditional
                Fragments](/refactoring/consolidate-duplicate-conditional-fragments)
            -   [Remove Control Flag](/refactoring/remove-control-flag)
            -   [Replace Nested Conditional with Guard
                Clauses](/refactoring/replace-nested-conditional-with-guard-clauses)
            -   [Replace Conditional with
                Polymorphism](/refactoring/replace-conditional-with-polymorphism)
            -   [Introduce Null
                Object](/refactoring/introduce-null-object)
            -   [Introduce Assertion](/refactoring/introduce-assertion)
        -   [Simplifying Method
            Calls](/refactoring/simplifying-method-calls)
            -   [Rename Method](/refactoring/rename-method)
            -   [Add Parameter](/refactoring/add-parameter)
            -   [Remove Parameter](/refactoring/remove-parameter)
            -   [Separate Query from
                Modifier](/refactoring/separate-query-from-modifier)
            -   [Parameterize Method](/refactoring/parameterize-method)
            -   [Replace Parameter with Explicit
                Methods](/refactoring/replace-parameter-with-explicit-methods)
            -   [Preserve Whole
                Object](/refactoring/preserve-whole-object)
            -   [Replace Parameter with Method
                Call](/refactoring/replace-parameter-with-method-call)
            -   [Introduce Parameter
                Object](/refactoring/introduce-parameter-object)
            -   [Remove Setting
                Method](/refactoring/remove-setting-method)
            -   [Hide Method](/refactoring/hide-method)
            -   [Replace Constructor with Factory
                Method](/refactoring/replace-constructor-with-factory-method)
            -   [Replace Error Code with
                Exception](/refactoring/replace-error-code-with-exception)
            -   [Replace Exception with
                Test](/refactoring/replace-exception-with-test)
        -   [Dealing with
            Generalisation](/refactoring/dealing-with-generalisation)
            -   [Pull Up Field](/refactoring/pull-up-field)
            -   [Pull Up Method](/refactoring/pull-up-method)
            -   [Pull Up Constructor
                Body](/refactoring/pull-up-constructor-body)
            -   [Push Down Method](/refactoring/push-down-method)
            -   [Push Down Field](/refactoring/push-down-field)
            -   [Extract Subclass](/refactoring/extract-subclass)
            -   [Extract Superclass](/refactoring/extract-superclass)
            -   [Extract Interface](/refactoring/extract-interface)
            -   [Collapse Hierarchy](/refactoring/collapse-hierarchy)
            -   [Form Template
                Method](/refactoring/form-template-method)
            -   [Replace Inheritance with
                Delegation](/refactoring/replace-inheritance-with-delegation)
            -   [Replace Delegation with
                Inheritance](/refactoring/replace-delegation-with-inheritance)
-   [ UML](/uml)
    -   [Introduction](/uml/introduction)
    -   [Basic Principles and Background](/uml/basic-principles)
        -   [Introduction to the Case
            Study](/uml/basic-principles-and-background/introduction-to-the-case-study)
        -   [Models, Views, and
            Diagrams](/uml/basic-principles-and-background/models-views-and-diagrams)
        -   [Information Systems and IT
            Systems](/uml/basic-principles-and-background/information-systems-and-it-systems)
        -   [The Models of our Case
            Study](/uml/basic-principles-and-background/the-models-of-our-case-study)
        -   [History of UML: Methods and
            Notations](/uml/basic-principles-and-background/history-of-uml-methods-and-notations)
        -   [Requirement
            Specification](/uml/basic-principles-and-background/requirement-specification)
        -   [UML 2.0](/uml/basic-principles-and-background/uml2)
    -   [Modeling Business Systems](/uml/modeling-business-systems)
        -   [Business Processes and Business
            Systems](/uml/modeling-business-systems/business-processes-and-business-systems)
        -   [One Model---Two
            Views](/uml/modeling-business-systems/one-model-two-views)
        -   [External
            View](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view)
        -   [The Elements of a
            View](/uml/modeling-business-systems/the-elements-of-view)
        -   [Use Case
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/use-case-diagrams)
        -   [Constructing Use Case
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/constructing-use-case-diagrams)
        -   [Activity
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/activity-diagrams)
        -   [Constructing Activity
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/constructing-activity-diagrams)
        -   [Sequence
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/sequence-diagrams)
        -   [Constructing Sequence
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/constructing-sequence-diagrams)
        -   [High-Level Sequence
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/high-level-sequence-diagrams)
        -   [Sequence Diagrams for Scenarios of Business Use
            Cases](/uml/modeling-business-systems/external-view/sequence-diagrams-for-scenarios-of-business-use-cases)
        -   [Internal
            View](/uml/modeling-business-systems/the-internal-view)
        -   [Package
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-business-systems/internal-view/package-diagram)
        -   [Constructing Package
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/internal-view/constructing-package-diagrams)
        -   [Class
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-business-systems/internal-view/class-diagram)
        -   [Constructing Class
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-business-systems/internal-view/constructing-class-diagrams)
        -   [Activity
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-business-systems/internal-view/activity-diagram)
    -   [Modeling IT Systems](/uml/modeling-it-systems)
        -   [External View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/external-view)
        -   [The User View or \"I don\'t care how it works, as long as
            it
            works.\"](/uml/modeling-it-systems/external-view/the-user-view-or-i-dont-care-how-it-works-as-long-as-it-works)
        -   [The Elements of a
            View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/external-view/the-elements-of-view)
        -   [Use Case
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-it-systems/external-view/the-elements-of-view/use-case-diagram)
        -   [Query Events and Mutation
            Events](/uml/modeling-it-systems/external-view/query-events-and-mutation-events)
        -   [Use Case Sequence
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-it-systems/external-view/use-case-sequence-diagram)
        -   [Constructing the External
            View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/external-view/constructing-the-external-view)
        -   [Structural View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/structural-view)
        -   [Objects and
            Classes](/uml/modeling-it-systems/structural-view/objects-and-classes)
        -   [Generalization, Specialization, and
            Inheritance](/uml/modeling-it-systems/structural-view/generalization-specialization-and-inheritance)
        -   [Static and Dynamic Business
            Rules](/uml/modeling-it-systems/structural-view/static-and-dynamic-business-rules)
        -   [Elements of the
            View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/structural-view/elements-of-the-view)
        -   [Class
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-it-systems/structural-view/class-diagram)
        -   [Constructing Class
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-it-systems/structural-view/constructing-class-diagrams)
        -   [The Behavioral
            View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/the-behavioral-view)
        -   [The Life of an
            Object](/uml/modeling-it-systems/the-behavioral-view/the-life-of-an-object)
        -   [The Elements of the
            View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/the-behavioral-view/the-elements-of-the-view)
        -   [Statechart
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-it-systems/the-behavioral-view/statechart-diagram)
        -   [Constructing Statechart
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-it-systems/the-behavioral-view/constructing-statechart-diagrams)
        -   [Interaction
            View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/interaction-view)
        -   [Seeing What Happens Inside the IT
            System](/uml/modeling-it-systems/interaction-view/seeing-what-happens-inside-the-it-system)
        -   [Elements of the
            View](/uml/modeling-it-systems/interaction-view/elements-of-the-view)
        -   [Communication
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-it-systems/interaction-view/communication-diagram)
        -   [Sequence
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-it-systems/interaction-view/sequence-diagram)
        -   [Constructing Communication
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-it-systems/interaction-view/constructing-communication-diagrams)
        -   [Constructing Sequence
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-it-systems/interaction-view/constructing-sequence-diagrams)
    -   [Modeling for System
        Integration](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration)
        -   [Terminology of System
            Integration](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/terminology-of-system-integration)
        -   [Messages in
            UML](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/messages-in-uml)
        -   [One Model---Two
            Views](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/one-model-two-views)
        -   [Process
            View](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/process-view)
        -   [The Business System Model as
            Foundation](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/process-view/the-business-system-model-as-foundation)
        -   [Elements of the
            View](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/process-view/elements-of-the-view)
        -   [Activity
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/process-view/activity-diagrams)
        -   [Sequence
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/process-view/sequence-diagram)
        -   [Constructing Diagrams in the Process
            View](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/process-view/constructing-diagrams-in-the-process-view)
        -   [The Static
            View](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/the-static-view)
        -   [Elements of the
            View](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/the-static-view/elements-of-the-view)
        -   [Class
            Diagram](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/the-static-view/class-diagram)
        -   [Constructing Class
            Diagrams](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/the-static-view/constructing-class-diagrams)
        -   [Transforming Data from the IT System to the Message
            \"passenger
            list\"](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/the-static-view/transforming-data-from-the-it-system-to-the-mess)
        -   [Transformation of UML Messages into Various Standard
            Formats](/uml/modeling-for-system-integration/the-static-view/transformation-of-uml-messages-into-various-stan)



[ Log in](https://sourcemaking.com/login "Log in") [ Contact
us](https://feedback.sourcemaking.com/ "Contact us"){.userecho-public
rel="nofollow"}





[![SourceMaking](/images/content-public/logos/logo-min-xs.png?id=f4a48661fc32a3f349b76a075f28594c){srcset="/images/content-public/logos/logo-min-xs-2x.png?id=34fc05750336c33b7815e231a0f227df 2x"}](/){.navigation-brand}


[![](data:image/svg+xml;base64,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)
Shop Now!](/store){.btn .btn-md .btn-primary .btn-featured}


-   [ [Contact us]{.caption .d-none
    .d-xl-inline-block}](https://feedback.sourcemaking.com/?show_feedback_form_private=true "Contact us"){.userecho-private
    rel="nofollow"}
-   [ [Log in]{.caption .d-none
    .d-xl-inline-block}](https://sourcemaking.com/login "Log in")
-   






-   [Design Patterns](/design_patterns)
-   [AntiPatterns](/antipatterns)
-   [Refactoring](/refactoring)
-   [UML](/uml)



-   [My account](/home)
-   [Forum](https://sourcemaking.userecho.com/){.userecho-public
    rel="nofollow"}
-   [Contact
    us](https://sourcemaking.userecho.com/?show_feedback_form_private=true){.userecho-private
    rel="nofollow"}
-   [About us](/about-us)










© 2007-2023 [SourceMaking.com](/)[ / ]{.d-none .d-md-inline}\
All rights reserved.



[Terms](/terms) / [Privacy policy](/privacy-policy)






